{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f2\fswiss Helvetica;\f3\fmodern Courier;\f4\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw13720
\paperh10020
\margl40
\margr40
\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\ql\fs24\fi0\li0\gray0\fc0\cf0\up0\dn0 Release 0.93  Copyleft 
\f1 ã
\f0 2017-2022 by Paul Ward.  All Rights Reserved.\
\

\f2\b\fs56\li2100 Architecture\

\fs52\li1360 \

\fs36 Class Description\

\fs14 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\f0\b0\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 The `Architecture' object is used to determine architecture features of the platform.  This includes the processor and machine types as well as various features supported by the Developer tools (if installed).\
\
This object can also be used to ascertain if the Developer tools are indeed installed.\
\

\f3\fs24 	if ([Architecture isDeveloperInstalled] == false) \{\
	  print "You do not have the Developer packages installed.";\
	\}
\f0\fs28 \

\pard\f2\b\fs36\li1360\fc0\cf0 \

\fs14 \

\fs36 Instance Methods\

\fs14 \

\fs52\fi-380\li2480 \

\fs28 currentArchitecture\

\fs6 \

\f0\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 (String)
\b currentArchitecture
\b0 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Returns the current architecture name.
\fs16 \

\fs14 \

\pard\f2\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 currentProcessor\

\fs6 \

\f0\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 (String)
\b currentProcessor
\b0 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Returns the processor name.
\fs14 \

\pard\f2\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 hasHPPA\

\fs6 \

\f0\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 (Boolean)
\b hasHPPA
\b0 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Returns 
\i true
\i0  if the Developer tools are capable of generating HP PA-RISC binaries.
\fs16 \

\fs14 \

\pard\f2\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 hasIX86\

\fs6 \

\f0\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 (Boolean)
\b hasIX86
\b0 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Returns 
\i true
\i0  if the Developer tools are capable of generating Intel binaries.
\fs16 \

\fs14 \

\pard\f2\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 hasM68K\

\fs6 \

\f0\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 (Boolean)
\b hasM68K
\b0 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Returns 
\i true
\i0  if the Developer tools are capable of generating Motorola 680x0 binaries.
\fs16 \

\fs14 \

\pard\f2\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 hasPPC\

\fs6 \

\f0\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 (Boolean)
\b hasPPC
\b0 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Returns 
\i true
\i0  if the Developer tools are capable of generating PowerPC binaries.
\fs16 \

\fs14 \

\pard\f2\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 hasSPARC\

\fs6 \

\f0\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 (Boolean)
\b hasSPARC
\b0 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Returns 
\i true
\i0  if the Developer tools are capable of generating SPARC binaries.
\fs16 \

\fs14 \

\pard\f2\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 isDeveloperInstalled\

\fs6 \

\f0\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 (Boolean)
\b isDeveloperInstalled
\b0 \

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Returns 
\i true
\i0  if the Developer packages have been installed.\
\
This might not be accurate.  We assume Developer is installed if there are any spec files in 
\f3 /lib/
\i arch
\i0 /specs
\f0  or 
\f3 /usr/libexec/
\i arch
\i0 /specs
\f0 , as these files are usually used by the C compiler.
\pard\f2\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

}
